### 8.12.4 Optimizing Memory Use

#### 8.12.4.1 How MySQL Uses Memory
MySQL allocates buffers and caches to improve performance of database operations. You can improve MySQL performance by increasing the values of certain cache and buffer-related system variables. You can also modify these variables to run MySQL on systems with limited memory.

The following list describes some of the ways that MySQL uses memory. Where applicable, relevant system variables are referenced. Some items are storage engine or feature specific.

*   The InnoDB buffer pool is a memory area that holds cached InnoDB data for tables, indexes, and other auxiliary buffers. For efficiency of high-volume read operations, the buffer pool is divided into [pages][3] that can potentially hold multiple rows. For efficiency of cache management, the buffer pool is implemented as a linked list of pages; data that is rarely used is aged out of the cache, using a variation of the [LRU][4] algorithm. For more information, see [Section 14.6.3.1, “The InnoDB Buffer Pool”][5].The size of the buffer pool is important for system performance.Typically, it is recommended that [innodb_buffer_pool_size][6] is configured to 50 to 75 percent of system memory.InnoDB allocates memory for the entire buffer pool at server startup. Memory allocation is performed by malloc()operations. Buffer pool size is defined by the [innodb_buffer_pool_size][7] configuration option.On systems with a large amount of memory, you can improve concurrency by dividing the buffer pool into multiple[buffer pool instances][8]. The number of buffer pool instances is defined by [innodb_buffer_pool_instances][9].A buffer pool that is too small may cause excessive churning as pages are flushed from the buffer pool only to be required again a short time later.A buffer pool that is too large may cause swapping due to competition for memory.

*   The [MySQL Performance Schema][10] is a feature for monitoring MySQL server execution at a low level. For performance reasons, fixed memory buffers for Performance Schema are allocated at server startup and do not change in size while the server is running.

*   All threads share the [MyISAM][11] key buffer; its size is determined by the [key_buffer_size][12] variable. Other buffers used by the server are allocated as needed. See [Section 5.1.1, “Configuring the Server”][13].For each MyISAM table that is opened, the index file is opened once; the data file is opened once for each concurrently running thread. For each concurrent thread, a table structure, column structures for each column, and a buffer of size 3 * N are allocated (where N is the maximum row length, not counting [BLOB][14] columns). A [BLOB][15]column requires five to eight bytes plus the length of the [BLOB][16] data. The MyISAM storage engine maintains one extra row buffer for internal use.

*   Each thread that is used to manage client connections uses some thread-specific space. The following list indicates these and which variables control their size:A stack (variable [thread_stack][17])A connection buffer (variable [net_buffer_length][18])A result buffer (variable [net_buffer_length][19])The connection buffer and result buffer each begin with a size equal to [net_buffer_length][20] bytes, but are dynamically enlarged up to [max_allowed_packet][21] bytes as needed. The result buffer shrinks to[net_buffer_length][22] bytes after each SQL statement. While a statement is running, a copy of the current statement string is also allocated.Each connection thread uses memory for computing statement digests (see [Section 22.8, “Performance Schema Statement Digests”][23]): In MySQL 5.6.24 and up, [max_digest_length][24] bytes per session.

*   All threads share the same base memory.

*   When a thread is no longer needed, the memory allocated to it is released and returned to the system unless the thread goes back into the thread cache. In that case, the memory remains allocated.

*   The [myisam_use_mmap][25] system variable can be set to 1 to enable memory-mapping for all MyISAM tables.

*   Each request that performs a sequential scan of a table allocates a read buffer (variable [read_buffer_size][26]).

*   When reading rows in an arbitrary sequence (for example, following a sort), a random-read buffer (variable[read_rnd_buffer_size][27]) may be allocated to avoid disk seeks.

*   All joins are executed in a single pass, and most joins can be done without even using a temporary table. Most temporary tables are memory-based hash tables. Temporary tables with a large row length (calculated as the sum of all column lengths) or that contain [BLOB][28] columns are stored on disk.If an internal in-memory temporary table becomes too large, MySQL handles this automatically by changing the table from in-memory to on-disk format, to be handled by the MyISAM storage engine. You can increase the permissible temporary table size as described in [Section 8.4.4, “Internal Temporary Table Use in MySQL”][29].For [MEMORY][30] tables explicitly created with [CREATE TABLE][31], only the [max_heap_table_size][32] system variable determines how large the table is permitted to grow and there is no conversion to on-disk format.

*   Most requests that perform a sort allocate a sort buffer and zero to two temporary files depending on the result set size. See [Section B.5.3.5, “Where MySQL Stores Temporary Files”][33].

*   Almost all parsing and calculating is done in thread-local and reusable memory pools. No memory overhead is needed for small items, so the normal slow memory allocation and freeing is avoided. Memory is allocated only for unexpectedly large strings.

*   For each table having [BLOB][34] columns, a buffer is enlarged dynamically to read in larger [BLOB][35] values. If you scan a table, a buffer as large as the largest [BLOB][36] value is allocated.

*   MySQL requires memory and descriptors for the table cache. Handler structures for all in-use tables are saved in the table cache and managed as “First In, First Out” (FIFO). The initial table cache size is defined by the[table_open_cache][37] system variable; see [Section 8.4.3.1, “How MySQL Opens and Closes Tables”][38].MySQL also requires memory for the table definition cache. The [table_definition_cache][39] system variable defines the number of table definitions (from .frm files) that can be stored in the table definition cache. If you use a large number of tables, you can create a large table definition cache to speed up the opening of tables. The table definition cache takes less space and does not use file descriptors, unlike the table cache.

*   A [FLUSH TABLES][40] statement or [mysqladmin flush-tables][41] command closes all tables that are not in use at once and marks all in-use tables to be closed when the currently executing thread finishes. This effectively frees most in-use memory. [FLUSH TABLES][42] does not return until all tables have been closed.

*   The server caches information in memory as a result of [GRANT][43], [CREATE USER][44], [CREATE SERVER][45], and [INSTALL PLUGIN][46] statements. This memory is not released by the corresponding [REVOKE][47], [DROP USER][48], [DROP SERVER][49], and[UNINSTALL PLUGIN][50] statements, so for a server that executes many instances of the statements that cause caching, there will be an increase in memory use. This cached memory can be freed with [FLUSH PRIVILEGES][51].

ps and other system status programs may report that [mysqld][52] uses a lot of memory. This may be caused by thread stacks on different memory addresses. For example, the Solaris version of ps counts the unused memory between stacks as used memory. To verify this, check available swap with swap -s. We test [mysqld][53] with several memory-leakage detectors (both commercial and Open Source), so there should be no memory leaks.

#### 8.12.4.2 Enabling Large Page Support

### <a></a>

Some hardware/operating system architectures support memory pages greater than the default (usually 4KB). The actual implementation of this support depends on the underlying hardware and operating system. Applications that perform a lot of memory accesses may obtain performance improvements by using large pages due to reduced Translation Lookaside Buffer (TLB) misses.

In MySQL, large pages can be used by InnoDB, to allocate memory for its buffer pool and additional memory pool.

Standard use of large pages in MySQL attempts to use the largest size supported, up to 4MB. Under Solaris, a“super large pages” feature enables uses of pages up to 256MB. This feature is available for recent SPARC platforms. It can be enabled or disabled by using the [--super-large-pages][54] or [--skip-super-large-pages][55]option.

MySQL also supports the Linux implementation of large page support (which is called HugeTLB in Linux).

Before large pages can be used on Linux, the kernel must be enabled to support them and it is necessary to configure the HugeTLB memory pool. For reference, the HugeTBL API is documented in theDocumentation/vm/hugetlbpage.txt file of your Linux sources.

The kernel for some recent systems such as Red Hat Enterprise Linux appear to have the large pages feature enabled by default. To check whether this is true for your kernel, use the following command and look for output lines containing “huge”:

```
shell> cat /proc/meminfo | grep -i huge
HugePages_Total:       0
HugePages_Free:        0
HugePages_Rsvd:        0
HugePages_Surp:        0
Hugepagesize:       4096 kB
```

If your kernel needs to be reconfigured to support large pages, consult the hugetlbpage.txt file for instructions.

Assuming that your Linux kernel has large page support enabled, configure it for use by MySQL using the following commands. Normally, you put these in an rc file or equivalent startup file that is executed during the system boot sequence, so that the commands execute each time the system starts. The commands should execute early in the boot sequence, before the MySQL server starts. Be sure to change the allocation numbers and the group number as appropriate for your system.

```
# Set the number of pages to be used.
# Each page is normally 2MB, so a value of 20 = 40MB.
# This command actually allocates memory, so this much
# memory must be available.
echo 20 > /proc/sys/vm/nr_hugepages

# Set the group number that is permitted to access this
# memory (102 in this case). The mysql user must be a
# member of this group.
echo 102 > /proc/sys/vm/hugetlb_shm_group

# Increase the amount of shmem permitted per segment
# (12G in this case).
echo 1560281088 > /proc/sys/kernel/shmmax

# Increase total amount of shared memory.  The value
# is the number of pages. At 4KB/page, 4194304 = 16GB.
echo 4194304 > /proc/sys/kernel/shmall
```

To verify the large page configuration, check /proc/meminfo again as described previously. Now you should see some nonzero values:

```
shell> cat /proc/meminfo | grep -i huge
HugePages_Total:      20
HugePages_Free:       20
HugePages_Rsvd:        0
HugePages_Surp:        0
Hugepagesize:       4096 kB
```

```
ulimit -l unlimited
```

Large page support in MySQL is disabled by default. To enable it, start the server with the [--large-pages][56] option. For example, you can use the following lines in your server's my.cnf file:

```
[mysqld]
large-pages
```

To verify that large pages are being used, check /proc/meminfo again:

```
shell> cat /proc/meminfo | grep -i huge
HugePages_Total:      20
HugePages_Free:       20
HugePages_Rsvd:        2
HugePages_Surp:        0
Hugepagesize:       4096 kB
```

[1]:optimization.html#memory-use
[2]:optimization.html#large-page-support
[3]:glossary.html#glos_page
[4]:glossary.html#glos_lru
[5]:innodb-storage-engine.html#innodb-buffer-pool
[6]:innodb-storage-engine.html#sysvar_innodb_buffer_pool_size
[7]:innodb-storage-engine.html#sysvar_innodb_buffer_pool_size
[8]:glossary.html#glos_buffer_pool_instance
[9]:innodb-storage-engine.html#sysvar_innodb_buffer_pool_instances
[10]:performance-schema.html
[11]:storage-engines.html#myisam-storage-engine
[12]:server-administration.html#sysvar_key_buffer_size
[13]:server-administration.html#server-configuration
[14]:data-types.html#blob
[15]:data-types.html#blob
[16]:data-types.html#blob
[17]:server-administration.html#sysvar_thread_stack
[18]:server-administration.html#sysvar_net_buffer_length
[19]:server-administration.html#sysvar_net_buffer_length
[20]:server-administration.html#sysvar_net_buffer_length
[21]:server-administration.html#sysvar_max_allowed_packet
[22]:server-administration.html#sysvar_net_buffer_length
[23]:performance-schema.html#performance-schema-statement-digests
[24]:server-administration.html#sysvar_max_digest_length
[25]:server-administration.html#sysvar_myisam_use_mmap
[26]:server-administration.html#sysvar_read_buffer_size
[27]:server-administration.html#sysvar_read_rnd_buffer_size
[28]:data-types.html#blob
[29]:optimization.html#internal-temporary-tables
[30]:storage-engines.html#memory-storage-engine
[31]:sql-syntax.html#create-table
[32]:server-administration.html#sysvar_max_heap_table_size
[33]:error-handling.html#temporary-files
[34]:data-types.html#blob
[35]:data-types.html#blob
[36]:data-types.html#blob
[37]:server-administration.html#sysvar_table_open_cache
[38]:optimization.html#table-cache
[39]:server-administration.html#sysvar_table_definition_cache
[40]:sql-syntax.html#flush
[41]:programs.html#mysqladmin
[42]:sql-syntax.html#flush
[43]:sql-syntax.html#grant
[44]:sql-syntax.html#create-user
[45]:sql-syntax.html#create-server
[46]:sql-syntax.html#install-plugin
[47]:sql-syntax.html#revoke
[48]:sql-syntax.html#drop-user
[49]:sql-syntax.html#drop-server
[50]:sql-syntax.html#uninstall-plugin
[51]:sql-syntax.html#flush
[52]:programs.html#mysqld
[53]:programs.html#mysqld
[54]:server-administration.html#option_mysqld_super-large-pages
[55]:server-administration.html#option_mysqld_super-large-pages
[56]:server-administration.html#option_mysqld_large-pages